now Oh Israel listen to the statutes and
now Oh Israel listen to the statutes and the judgments which I teach you to
the judgments which I teach you to
the judgments which I teach you to observe that you may live and go in and
observe that you may live and go in and
observe that you may live and go in and possess the land which the Lord God of
possess the land which the Lord God of
possess the land which the Lord God of your father's is giving you you shall
your father's is giving you you shall
your father's is giving you you shall not add to the word which I commend you
not add to the word which I commend you
not add to the word which I commend you nor take from it that you may keep the
nor take from it that you may keep the
nor take from it that you may keep the commandments of the Lord your God which
commandments of the Lord your God which
commandments of the Lord your God which I commend you your eyes have seen what
I commend you your eyes have seen what
I commend you your eyes have seen what the Lord did at the LPR for the Lord
the Lord did at the LPR for the Lord
the Lord did at the LPR for the Lord your God has destroyed from among you
your God has destroyed from among you
your God has destroyed from among you all the men who followed they love pure
all the men who followed they love pure
all the men who followed they love pure but you who held fast to the Lord your
but you who held fast to the Lord your
but you who held fast to the Lord your God are alive today every one of you
God are alive today every one of you
God are alive today every one of you surely I have taught you statutes and
surely I have taught you statutes and
surely I have taught you statutes and judgments just as the Lord my God
judgments just as the Lord my God
judgments just as the Lord my God commanded me that you should act
commanded me that you should act
commanded me that you should act according to them in the land which you
according to them in the land which you
according to them in the land which you go to possess therefore be careful to
go to possess therefore be careful to
go to possess therefore be careful to observe them for this is your wisdom and
observe them for this is your wisdom and
observe them for this is your wisdom and your understanding
your understanding
your understanding in the sight of the people's who will
in the sight of the people's who will
in the sight of the people's who will hear all these statutes and say surely
hear all these statutes and say surely
hear all these statutes and say surely this great nation is a wise and
this great nation is a wise and
this great nation is a wise and understanding people for what great
understanding people for what great
understanding people for what great nation is there that has God so near to
nation is there that has God so near to
nation is there that has God so near to it as the Lord our God is to us for
it as the Lord our God is to us for
it as the Lord our God is to us for whatever reason we may call upon him and
whatever reason we may call upon him and
whatever reason we may call upon him and what great nation is there that has such
what great nation is there that has such
what great nation is there that has such statutes and righteous judgments as are
statutes and righteous judgments as are
statutes and righteous judgments as are in all this law which I set before you
in all this law which I set before you
in all this law which I set before you this day only take heed to yourself and
this day only take heed to yourself and
this day only take heed to yourself and diligently keep yourself lest you forget
diligently keep yourself lest you forget
diligently keep yourself lest you forget the things your eyes have seen unless
the things your eyes have seen unless
the things your eyes have seen unless they depart from your heart all the days
they depart from your heart all the days
they depart from your heart all the days of your life and teach them to your
of your life and teach them to your
of your life and teach them to your children and your grandchildren
children and your grandchildren
children and your grandchildren especially concerning the day you stood
especially concerning the day you stood
especially concerning the day you stood before the Lord your God in Horeb when
before the Lord your God in Horeb when
before the Lord your God in Horeb when the Lord said to me
the Lord said to me
the Lord said to me yea they're the people to me and I will
yea they're the people to me and I will
yea they're the people to me and I will let them hear my words that they may
let them hear my words that they may
let them hear my words that they may learn to fear me all the days they live
learn to fear me all the days they live
learn to fear me all the days they live on the earth and that they may teach
on the earth and that they may teach
on the earth and that they may teach their children then you came here and
their children then you came here and
their children then you came here and stood at the foot of the mountain and
stood at the foot of the mountain and
stood at the foot of the mountain and the mountain burned with fire to the
the mountain burned with fire to the
the mountain burned with fire to the midst of heaven
midst of heaven
midst of heaven with darkness cloud and thick darkness
with darkness cloud and thick darkness
with darkness cloud and thick darkness and the Lord spoke to you out of the
and the Lord spoke to you out of the
and the Lord spoke to you out of the midst of the fire you heard the sound of
midst of the fire you heard the sound of
midst of the fire you heard the sound of the words but saw no form you only heard
the words but saw no form you only heard
the words but saw no form you only heard a voice so he declared to you his
a voice so he declared to you his
a voice so he declared to you his covenant which he commanded you to
covenant which he commanded you to
covenant which he commanded you to perform the Ten Commandments and he
perform the Ten Commandments and he
perform the Ten Commandments and he wrote them on two tablets of stone and
wrote them on two tablets of stone and
wrote them on two tablets of stone and the LORD commanded me at that time to
the LORD commanded me at that time to
the LORD commanded me at that time to teach you statutes and judgments that
teach you statutes and judgments that
teach you statutes and judgments that you might observe them in the land which
you might observe them in the land which
you might observe them in the land which you cross over to possess take careful
you cross over to possess take careful
you cross over to possess take careful heed to yourselves for you saw no form
heed to yourselves for you saw no form
heed to yourselves for you saw no form when the Lord spoke to you at Orab out
when the Lord spoke to you at Orab out
when the Lord spoke to you at Orab out of the midst of the fire unless you act
of the midst of the fire unless you act
of the midst of the fire unless you act corruptly and make for yourselves a
corruptly and make for yourselves a
corruptly and make for yourselves a carved image in the form of any figure
carved image in the form of any figure
carved image in the form of any figure the likeness of male or female the
the likeness of male or female the
the likeness of male or female the likeness of any animal that is on the
likeness of any animal that is on the
likeness of any animal that is on the earth or the likeness of any weed bird
earth or the likeness of any weed bird
earth or the likeness of any weed bird that flies in the air
the likeness of anything that creeps on
the likeness of anything that creeps on the ground or the likeness of any fish
the ground or the likeness of any fish
the ground or the likeness of any fish that is in the water beneath the earth
that is in the water beneath the earth
that is in the water beneath the earth and take heed lest you lift your eyes to
and take heed lest you lift your eyes to
and take heed lest you lift your eyes to heaven and when you see the Sun the moon
heaven and when you see the Sun the moon
heaven and when you see the Sun the moon and the stars all the hosts of heaven
and the stars all the hosts of heaven
and the stars all the hosts of heaven you feel driven to worship them and
you feel driven to worship them and
you feel driven to worship them and serve them which the Lord your God has
serve them which the Lord your God has
serve them which the Lord your God has given to all the peoples under the whole
given to all the peoples under the whole
given to all the peoples under the whole heaven as a heritage but the Lord has
heaven as a heritage but the Lord has
heaven as a heritage but the Lord has taken you and brought you out of the
taken you and brought you out of the
taken you and brought you out of the iron furnace out of Egypt to be his
iron furnace out of Egypt to be his
iron furnace out of Egypt to be his people
people
people and inheritance as you are this day
furthermore the Lord was angry with me
furthermore the Lord was angry with me for your sakes and swore that I would
for your sakes and swore that I would
for your sakes and swore that I would not cross over the Jordan and that I
not cross over the Jordan and that I
not cross over the Jordan and that I would not enter the good land which the
would not enter the good land which the
would not enter the good land which the Lord your God is giving you as an
Lord your God is giving you as an
Lord your God is giving you as an inheritance but I must die in this land
inheritance but I must die in this land
inheritance but I must die in this land I must not cross over the Jordan but you
I must not cross over the Jordan but you
I must not cross over the Jordan but you shall cross over and possess that good
shall cross over and possess that good
shall cross over and possess that good land take heed to yourselves lest you
land take heed to yourselves lest you
land take heed to yourselves lest you forget the Covenant of the Lord your God
forget the Covenant of the Lord your God
forget the Covenant of the Lord your God which he made with you and make for
which he made with you and make for
which he made with you and make for yourselves a carved image in the form of
yourselves a carved image in the form of
yourselves a carved image in the form of anything which the Lord your God has
anything which the Lord your God has
anything which the Lord your God has forbidden you for the Lord your God is a
forbidden you for the Lord your God is a
forbidden you for the Lord your God is a consuming fire a jealous God
consuming fire a jealous God
consuming fire a jealous God when you beget children and
when you beget children and
when you beget children and grandchildren and have grown old and
grandchildren and have grown old and
grandchildren and have grown old and land and act corruptly and make a carved
land and act corruptly and make a carved
land and act corruptly and make a carved image in the form of anything and do
image in the form of anything and do
image in the form of anything and do evil in the sight of the Lord your God
evil in the sight of the Lord your God
evil in the sight of the Lord your God to provoke him to anger I called heaven
to provoke him to anger I called heaven
to provoke him to anger I called heaven and earth to witness against you this
and earth to witness against you this
and earth to witness against you this day that you will soon uh turley perish
day that you will soon uh turley perish
day that you will soon uh turley perish from the land which you cross over the
from the land which you cross over the
from the land which you cross over the Jordan to possess you will not prolong
Jordan to possess you will not prolong
Jordan to possess you will not prolong your days in it but will be utterly
your days in it but will be utterly
your days in it but will be utterly destroyed and the Lord will scatter you
destroyed and the Lord will scatter you
destroyed and the Lord will scatter you among the peoples and you will be left
among the peoples and you will be left
among the peoples and you will be left few in number among the nations where
few in number among the nations where
few in number among the nations where the Lord will drive you and there you
the Lord will drive you and there you
the Lord will drive you and there you will serve God's the work of men's hands
will serve God's the work of men's hands
will serve God's the work of men's hands wood and stone which neither see nor
wood and stone which neither see nor
wood and stone which neither see nor hear nor eat nor smell but from there
hear nor eat nor smell but from there
hear nor eat nor smell but from there you will seek the Lord your God and you
you will seek the Lord your God and you
you will seek the Lord your God and you will find him if you seek him with all
will find him if you seek him with all
will find him if you seek him with all your heart with all your soul
when you are in distress and all these
when you are in distress and all these things come upon you in the latter days
things come upon you in the latter days
things come upon you in the latter days when you turn to the Lord your God and
when you turn to the Lord your God and
when you turn to the Lord your God and obey his voice for the Lord your God is
obey his voice for the Lord your God is
obey his voice for the Lord your God is a merciful God
he will not foresee you nor destroy you
he will not foresee you nor destroy you nor forget the Covenant of your father's
nor forget the Covenant of your father's
nor forget the Covenant of your father's which he swore to them for ask now
which he swore to them for ask now
which he swore to them for ask now concerning the days that are past which
concerning the days that are past which
concerning the days that are past which were before you since the day that God
were before you since the day that God
were before you since the day that God created man on the earth and asked from
created man on the earth and asked from
created man on the earth and asked from one end of heaven to the other whether
one end of heaven to the other whether
one end of heaven to the other whether any great thing like this has happened
any great thing like this has happened
any great thing like this has happened or anything like it has been heard
or anything like it has been heard
or anything like it has been heard did any people ever hear the voice of
did any people ever hear the voice of
did any people ever hear the voice of God speaking out of the midst of the
God speaking out of the midst of the
God speaking out of the midst of the fire as you have heard and live or did
fire as you have heard and live or did
fire as you have heard and live or did God ever try to go and take for himself
God ever try to go and take for himself
God ever try to go and take for himself a nation from the midst of another
a nation from the midst of another
a nation from the midst of another nation by trials by signs by wonders at
nation by trials by signs by wonders at
nation by trials by signs by wonders at war
war
war by a mighty hand and an outstretched arm
by a mighty hand and an outstretched arm
by a mighty hand and an outstretched arm and by great terrors according to all
and by great terrors according to all
and by great terrors according to all that the Lord your God did for you in
that the Lord your God did for you in
that the Lord your God did for you in Egypt before your eyes to you it was
Egypt before your eyes to you it was
Egypt before your eyes to you it was shown that you might know that the Lord
shown that you might know that the Lord
shown that you might know that the Lord Himself is God there is none other
Himself is God there is none other
Himself is God there is none other besides him
besides him
besides him out of heaven he let you hear his voice
out of heaven he let you hear his voice
out of heaven he let you hear his voice that he might instruct you on earth he
that he might instruct you on earth he
that he might instruct you on earth he showed you his great fire and you heard
showed you his great fire and you heard
showed you his great fire and you heard his words out of the midst of the fire
his words out of the midst of the fire
his words out of the midst of the fire and because he loved your fathers
and because he loved your fathers
and because he loved your fathers therefore he chose their descendants
therefore he chose their descendants
therefore he chose their descendants after them and he brought you out of
after them and he brought you out of
after them and he brought you out of Egypt with his presence
Egypt with his presence
Egypt with his presence with his mighty power driving out from
with his mighty power driving out from
with his mighty power driving out from before you nations greater and mightier
before you nations greater and mightier
before you nations greater and mightier than you to bring you in to give you
than you to bring you in to give you
than you to bring you in to give you their land as an inheritance as it is
their land as an inheritance as it is
their land as an inheritance as it is this day therefore know this day
this day therefore know this day
this day therefore know this day and consider it in your heart that the
and consider it in your heart that the
and consider it in your heart that the Lord Himself is God in heaven above and
Lord Himself is God in heaven above and
Lord Himself is God in heaven above and on the earth beneath there is no other
on the earth beneath there is no other
on the earth beneath there is no other you shall therefore keep his statutes
you shall therefore keep his statutes
you shall therefore keep his statutes and his commandments which I command you
and his commandments which I command you
and his commandments which I command you today that it may go well with you and
today that it may go well with you and
today that it may go well with you and with your children after you and that
with your children after you and that
with your children after you and that you may prolong your days in the land
you may prolong your days in the land
you may prolong your days in the land which the Lord your God is giving you
which the Lord your God is giving you
which the Lord your God is giving you for all time then Moses set apart three
for all time then Moses set apart three
for all time then Moses set apart three cities on this side of the Jordan toward
cities on this side of the Jordan toward
cities on this side of the Jordan toward the rising of the Sun but the manslayer
the rising of the Sun but the manslayer
the rising of the Sun but the manslayer might flee there who kills his neighbor
might flee there who kills his neighbor
might flee there who kills his neighbor unintentionally about having hated him
unintentionally about having hated him
unintentionally about having hated him in time past and that by fleeing to one
in time past and that by fleeing to one
in time past and that by fleeing to one of these cities he might live beaser in
of these cities he might live beaser in
of these cities he might live beaser in the wilderness on the plateau for the
the wilderness on the plateau for the
the wilderness on the plateau for the rubra nights ramoth in Gilead for the
rubra nights ramoth in Gilead for the
rubra nights ramoth in Gilead for the gardens and Golan impatiens for the
gardens and Golan impatiens for the
gardens and Golan impatiens for the manna sites now this is the law which
manna sites now this is the law which
manna sites now this is the law which Moses set before the children of Israel
Moses set before the children of Israel
Moses set before the children of Israel these are the testimonies the statutes
these are the testimonies the statutes
these are the testimonies the statutes and the judgments which Moses spoke to
and the judgments which Moses spoke to
and the judgments which Moses spoke to the children of Israel after they came
the children of Israel after they came
the children of Israel after they came out of Egypt on this side of the Jordan
out of Egypt on this side of the Jordan
out of Egypt on this side of the Jordan in the valley opposite Beth peel in the
in the valley opposite Beth peel in the
in the valley opposite Beth peel in the land of Sion king of the amorite s-- who
land of Sion king of the amorite s-- who
land of Sion king of the amorite s-- who dwelt at Heshbon whom Moses and the
dwelt at Heshbon whom Moses and the
dwelt at Heshbon whom Moses and the children of Israel defeated after they
children of Israel defeated after they
children of Israel defeated after they came out of Egypt and they took
came out of Egypt and they took
came out of Egypt and they took possession of his land and the land of
possession of his land and the land of
possession of his land and the land of Arg
Arg
Arg king of bation two kings of the amorite
king of bation two kings of the amorite
king of bation two kings of the amorite s-- who were on this side of the Jordan
s-- who were on this side of the Jordan
s-- who were on this side of the Jordan toward the rising of the Sun from Araroa
toward the rising of the Sun from Araroa
toward the rising of the Sun from Araroa which is on the bank of the river arnon
which is on the bank of the river arnon
which is on the bank of the river arnon even to Mount Zion
even to Mount Zion
even to Mount Zion that is Harley and all the plane on the
that is Harley and all the plane on the
that is Harley and all the plane on the east side of the Jordan as far as the
east side of the Jordan as far as the
east side of the Jordan as far as the sea of a rubber below the slopes of
sea of a rubber below the slopes of
sea of a rubber below the slopes of Pisgah